built in function iter() (#2196)
Codecademy/docs: content/python/concepts/built-in-functions/terms/iter/iter.md

---
Title: 'iter()'
Description: 'Returns an iterator object for a given object.'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:
  - 'Functions'
  - 'Iterators'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

> The **`iter()`** function is a built-in Python function used to create an **iterator** object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The **`iter()`** function is a built-in Python function used to create an `iterator` object.
```

---
Title: 'iter()'
Description: 'Returns an iterator object for a given object'
Subjects:
  - 'Computer Science'
  - 'Data Science'
Tags:

>   - 'Built-in Functions'

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
  - 'Functions'
```

  - 'Iterators'
CatalogContent:
  - 'learn-python-3'
  - 'paths/computer-science'
---

The **`iter()`** function is a built-in Python function used to create an **iterator** object.

## Syntax

> 
> The `iter()` function has two main forms:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
```

```pseudo
iter(object[, sentinel])
```

- `object`: Required. An object. The `iter()` function returns an iterator object for this.
- `sentinel`: Optional. If set, the iterator will call the object with no arguments for each call to its `__next__()` method. If the value returned is equal to `sentinel`, `StopIteration` will be raised, otherwise the value will be returned.

## Example

> Here is an example of how you might use the `iter()` function:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The code below demonstrates the use of the `iter()` function:
```

```py

> # create a list

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Create a list
```

fruits = ["apple", "banana", "cherry"]

> # get an iterator object

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Get an iterator object
```

fruit_iter = iter(fruits)

> # iterate over the list using the iterator

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
# Iterate over the list using the iterator
```

print(next(fruit_iter))
print(next(fruit_iter))
print(next(fruit_iter))
```

> In the above code snippet, we first create a list of fruits. We then use the `iter()` function to get an iterator object for the list. Finally, we use the `next()` function to iterate over the items in the list.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the code above a list is declared, and the `iter()` function is used to get an iterator object for the list. Finally, the `next()` function is used to step through the items in the list.
```

Reviewer 2: Generally, we try to avoid the use of first and second person pronouns in docs (I, you, we)

## Codebyte Example

> In the following example, we are doing almost the same thing as in the previous example. However, we are using a `while True` loop to continue calling `next(fruit_iter)` until a `StopIteration` exception is raised, indicating that there are no more items to iterate over.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In the following example, the code is iterating and printing the items in the `fruits` list as in the previous example. However, in this instance a `while` loop is used to continue calling `next(fruit_iter)` until a `StopIteration` exception is raised, indicating that there are no more items to iterate over.
```
